OBJECTIVE                                                                                                                                                            The project aims to improve the current agricultural practices by using Internet of Things and google cloud services. It is an automated plant monitoring system which makes use of Humidity, Soil Moisture, Temperature and light-dependent resistor sensors. The system also has actuators to maintain the ideal conditions for the growth of plant. The irrigation of field is done using automatic drip irrigation, which operates according to the soil moisture threshold set accordingly so as optimal amount of water is applied to the plants.

METHODOLOGY                                                                                                                                                          The hardware part of prototype is built using Arduino uno and NodeMCU microcontroller. The data acquired by the sensors is sent through Wi-Fi using NodeMCU to the firebase.
The software part of prototype includes a website and an android application. The real time data is displayed in the website and the android application. The primary services used for this system is the Firebase Realtime Database (RTDB) RTDB creates a real-time channel between microcontroller and the consumer dashboard. Then the cloud function triggers this update from Firebase. The cloud function is used to send push notifications to consumers. These “Smart devices” in IoT are often connected to the digital cloud to store the data generated by them. This data is further utilised for analytics by the consumers. Furthermore, we plan to use machine learning models to predict which crop should be grown in the next month for better yield and minimum loss.

